# CS300
Run-time analysis, reflection, and working code for CS300 DSA: Analysis and Design

1. What was the problem you were solving in the projects for this course?
In this course, we had two projects we worked on that involved sorting univeristy course information (including course number, course name, and prerequisite courses) - the first project involved updating pseudocode from previous milestones that showing how to load a file, how to create course objects/store them in the data structure, and how to print course information/prerequisite courses for three types of sorting algorithms (vectors, hashtables, and binary search trees). Then, we did a runtime analysis and gave a recommendation on the best sorting algorithm to use for the course information. For the second project, we created working code that could load a file, add course information to the chosen data structure, print course information alphanumerically, and search for a specific course using a working menu. I chose to do my project using the binary search tree structure.

2. How did you approach the problem? Consider why data structures are important to understand.
I approached the problem as logically as I could - my run-time analysis determined all of the structures would have a similar outcome regarding memory allocation and speed. It was important to understand the advantages and disadvantages of each structure so I could make the best choice when it came to my selction on which data structure to use. I ultimately chose the BST as it I could easily set up and call the 'inOrder' function to print the course list alphanumerically, while vectors/hashtables required more advanced sorting methods.

3. How did you overcome any roadblocks you encountered while going through the activities or projects?
I didn't struggle too much updating my pseudocode or creating my recommendation - the biggest roadblock I ran into was setting up the function to load a file into my code for Project Two. I watched quite a few YouTube videos to try and understand the best way to load the course file before I reached out to the 24/7 tutoring service offered at SNHU for assistance. That helped tremendously, not only with getting my code functioning but also with my own understanding of file loading (which is something I've always struggled with).

4. How has your work on this project expanded your approach to designing software and deveoping programs?
I certainly feel like I have a much better understanding of data structures and how they function! I was familiar with the concepts, but I hadn't dived deep into them like I did i this course and with these projects. I certainly feel like I have a better understanding of how my pseudocode should look, though I'll need more practice to get to a place where I'm fully comfortable - same with runtime analysis. I think the knowledge I gained on file loading will be super beneficial going forward, as it's a common function I'll be using in future projects.

5. How has your work on this project evolved the way you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable?
I tried really hard to make sure my code in ProjectTwo was clear and easy to read - far too often I see code that I can't make out because of how sloppy it is, and I want to avoid that as much as possible. This includes comments that explain my code without leaving out important details or overexplaining concepts. I also tried to make sure I used proper methods/loops within my functions that can be applied to files of larger size, and could easily adapt the code to fit more course information down the line if necessary.
